
.TH tcpstates 8  "2018-03-20" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
tcpstates \- Trace TCP session state changes with durations. Uses Linux eBPF/bcc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tcpstates [\-h] [\-T] [\-t] [\-w] [\-s] [\-D PORTS] [\-L PORTS] [\-Y] [\-4 | \-6]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool traces TCP session state changes while tracing, and prints details
including the duration in each state. This can help explain the latency of
TCP connections: whether the time is spent in the ESTABLISHED state (data
transfer), or initialization state (SYN_SENT), etc.

This tool works using the sock:inet_sock_set_state tracepoint, which was
added to Linux 4.16. Linux 4.16 also included extra state transitions so that
all TCP transitions could be observed by this tracepoint.

Only TCP state changes are traced, so it is expected that the
overhead of this tool is much lower than typical send/receive tracing.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc, and the sock:inet_sock_set_state tracepoint.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-s
Comma separated values output (parseable).
.TP
\-t
Include a timestamp column (seconds).
.TP
\-T
Include a time column (HH:MM:SS).
.TP
\-w
Wide column output (fits IPv6 addresses).
.TP
\-L PORTS
Comma-separated list of local ports to trace (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-D PORTS
Comma-separated list of destination ports to trace (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-Y
Log session state changes to the systemd journal.
.TP
\-4
Trace IPv4 family only.
.TP
\-6
Trace IPv6 family only.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace all TCP sessions, and show all state changes:
#
.B tcpstates
.TP
Include a timestamp column, and wide column output:
#
.B tcpstates \-tw
.TP
Trace connections to local ports 80 and 81 only:
#
.B tcpstates \-L 80,81